Hey guys welcome back.
It's what I did last time is gauer.
Logan handler working which now means out log in for an average of one.
Both work as expected.
The issue at the moment though is that you don't stay logged in.
What I mean by that is there's nothing keeping track of when you're locked in or not.
So I'd go to the index page right now indexed obvious B and it works.
We don't want to allow them to get to this page unless they're locked down right which means we have
to maintain their log in so we have to remember whether they're logged in or not.
And as a really really simple but our schomer do now we need something called sessions and Sessions
lead to save variable values across pages.
OK.
So most variables lose value as soon as you graph that page.
But with session variables they maintain their value.
So the first thing you need to do and there's not many things to do is none of them a very short list
of things to do as is right in the conflict up HP file session and as scores start.
And this enables the use of sessions.
Okay so without this our sessions won't work.
So remember this bit of code here session and the score start at end with we nearly don't now always
have to do is go to your logging handler and then in this part where if is always true.
So if there logon was successful we're just going to write does science underscore session like that
and this is going to be user logged in.
So we're creating the session variable user logged in.
I'm going to give you the value of the user name which is this one up here the value then in the form.
So usually then will be set to the user's username and that's it.
Copy and paste that line that has me do the same for the register handler song and go to register handler
that BHP.
And in this by air if laurean was successful pasted a half do before it redirect the user session you've
logged in equals username which is available here.
So use London username so that's it we've great session.
Robles It works.
All that's left to do now is redirect them from the index page.
If they're not logged in already so go to the index page open there which is in the root of your website
folder.
So index iph.
Open that up and above all the AC simple code A and BHP tags.
And this is where we check to see if the session variable is set.
So we're going to say if it is set aside and the score session and user log
in like that is use locked down and this needs to match exactly with how you have it here.
Okay this has to match exactly.
Next up it should be.
So if it is set to do is create the be variable use logged in and set it equal to the session variable
here there.
So now the green variable called use of the end which contains the user's username because that's what
we set this to.
We set the session variable to the user name and asit else.
So if the session is not set we want to redirect them back to the register page header location cattle
location registered dot HP.
Just like that and that is that simple.
We going have a problem with this at the moment because we don't have the session start Pyaar we have
here.
It's in the conflict file or address every need.
This recession is to work on the index page.
There is no session start.
So what are we to do rather than just add sessions start linear add referenced this config file.
So right at the top there.
Include includes slash conflict.
HP.
And that's it.
Now our sessions start code will be included on the index page and we can use sessions and it's really
that simple.
That's it.
We've done all we need to do our show.
I mean if I so if I were trying today indexed up HP page now you'll see it won't let me go there.
It will redirect me back so I'm back on the net and the range should appear to be page.
If I log in though.
Password thing I type that write up that ever.
Nope typed it wrong so password there.
Now we can get there.
So now I can be on the index page because I'm locked down and you should also test out the register
form.
So you should test it here as well to measure when you read it successfully redirects you to the next
page if you want to read if you want to manually log out though.
We need to do is include this code on the page.
So just write session destroyed.
So we have an absolute includer a log out.
Byrne Yeah.
So until we implement log aaba And if you ever want to log out manually just include this code and then
nothing unless it's very page.
Okay so my session has been destroyed and I'll read it refresh and then it takes me back.
Okay so session a story is just a log now so common that out measure you're only uncommented if you
need to use it because if you forget to comment it out again it will laqueur every time.
You might not know why.
So only include sessions story when you want to log out manually and it's only temporary until we actually
include log albertan.